[Why is dynamic programming called dynamic programming?](https://www.quora.com/Why-is-dynamic-programming-called-dynamic-programming)

Bellman explains the reasoning behind the term dynamic programming in his autobiography, Eye of the Hurricane: An Autobiography (1984). He explains
"I spent the Fall quarter (of 1950) at RAND. My first task was to find a  name for multistage decision processes. An interesting question is,  Where did the name, dynamic programming, come from? The 1950s were not  good years for mathematical research. We had a very interesting  gentleman in Washington named Wilson.  He was Secretary of Defense, and he actually had a pathological fear  and hatred of the word research. I’m not using the term lightly; I’m  using it precisely. His face would suffuse, he would turn red, and he  would get violent if people used the term research in his presence. You  can imagine how he felt, then, about the term mathematical. The RAND  Corporation was employed by the Air Force, and the Air Force had Wilson  as its boss, essentially. Hence, I felt I had to do something to shield  Wilson and the Air Force from the fact that I was really doing  mathematics inside the RAND Corporation. What title, what name, could I  choose? In the first place I was interested in planning, in decision  making, in thinking. But planning, is not a good word for various  reasons. I decided therefore to use the word “programming”. I wanted to  get across the idea that this was dynamic, this was multistage, this was  time-varying I thought, lets kill two birds with one stone. Lets take a  word that has an absolutely precise meaning, namely dynamic, in the  classical physical sense. It also has a very interesting property as an  adjective, and that is it's impossible to use the word dynamic in a  pejorative sense. Try thinking of some combination that will possibly  give it a pejorative meaning. It's impossible. Thus, I thought dynamic  programming was a good name. It was something not even a Congressman  could object to. So I used it as an umbrella for my activities.
The word dynamic was chosen by Bellman to capture the time-varying aspect of the problems, and because it sounded impressive.[3] The word programming referred to the use of the method to find an optimal program, in the sense of a military schedule for training or logistics. This usage is the same as that in the phrases linear programming and mathematical programming, a synonym for mathematical optimization.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_programming

 dynamic programming (also known as dynamic optimization) is a method for solving a complex problem by breaking it down into a collection of simpler subproblems, solving each of those subproblems just once, and storing their solutions. The next time the same subproblem occurs, instead of recomputing its solution, one simply looks up the previously computed solution, thereby saving computation time at the expense of a (hopefully) modest expenditure in storage space. (Each of the subproblem solutions is indexed in some way, typically based on the values of its input parameters, so as to facilitate its lookup.) The technique of storing solutions to subproblems instead of recomputing them is called "memoization".